
uv init:
     for inislization of the project

uv sync:
     creating the virtual environment and installing the dependencies of the project

uv add dbt-core:
     for installing the dbt core package in the virtual environment

uv add dbt-snowflake:
     for installing the dbt snowflake package in the virtual environment, which allows you to use


dbt init command:
     for initializing a new dbt project in the current directory. It sets up the necessary file structure and configuration for a dbt project.
     also give information about project and snowflake also.

dbt debug :
     for checking the connection to the data warehouse and verifying that the dbt project is set up correctly. It helps to identify any issues with the configuration or connectivity.

goes to main project directory (in my case it is practice_dbt_tutorial) and run the command dbt debug to check the connection to the data warehouse and verify that the dbt project is set up correctly. It helps to identify any issues with the configuration or connectivity.

dbt run:
     for executing the dbt models defined in the project. It compiles the SQL code and runs it against the data warehouse to create or update the tables and views as specified in the models.

dbt test:
     for running the tests defined in the dbt project. It executes the test queries against the data warehouse to validate the data and ensure that it meets the specified conditions or constraints.
     
     it is check all the test cases which are defined in the tests directory of the dbt project.
     and for the generic test have to create generic model inside the test directory and then have to create a test file inside the generic model 
     and then have to write the test case in that file and then have to run the dbt test command to check the test case.

dbt seed:
     for loading the seed data defined in the dbt project. It reads the seed files (usually CSV files) and loads the data into the data warehouse as specified in the seed configuration(dbt_project.yml).
     it is used to load static data into the data warehouse, such as reference data or lookup tables that do not change frequently. 
     You can define seed files in your dbt project and then run the dbt seed command to load the data into your data warehouse.
