
what is dbt?
     dbt (data build tool) is an open-source command-line tool that helps 
     transform raw data into a more usable format.
     and also allows users to write SQL queries to define transformations. 
    
why dbt ?
it is provide modulerity, templating(jinja), scalability, and maintainability to data transformation processes.

dbt platforms?
     DBT Core: (CLI Tool)The open-source version of dbt that can be used with various data warehouses.
     DBT Cloud: DBT Cloud is like managed product built on top of DBT Core.
                A hosted version of dbt that provides additional features and a user-friendly interface.
     DBT Canvas: DBT Canvas is one of the feature of the DBT Cloud platform.
               A collaborative platform for data teams to work together on dbt projects.

what is the backbone of the DBT?
     it is DBT Models, dbt models are something that holds your code.
     which are SQL files that define transformations and data models.

     it is write templating code, transformation data but dbt models haven't any compute power.
     it will be use data warehouse(snowflake,databricks) resource to run the code and transform data.
     dbt is use data warehouse as a compute engine to run the transformations defined in dbt models.
     
snowflake , databricks , fabrics are all adapter of dbt 

config inheritance:
     dbt_project.yml < properties < block
     an in file config() block (high)  -> properties defined in .yml file (medium) -> config defined in project file (low)
     example: if you have defined materialized as table in dbt_project.yml file and then you have defined materialized as view in config() block of the model file, 
               then the model will be materialized as view because it has higher priority than the materialized defined in dbt_project.yml file.


dbt schema priority (custom schema):
     1. model file (config() block)
     2. dbt_project.yml file
     3. default schema defined in profile.yml file

because schema will not change frequently so it is better to define it in dbt_project.yml file
 and if you want to override it for a specific model then you can define it in config() block of the model file.

dbt test:
     dbt test is a feature of dbt that allows you to write tests to validate your data.
     it is used to ensure the quality and integrity of your data by defining tests that check for specific conditions or constraints on your data.
     dbt test can be used to check for things like null values, unique values, referential integrity, and more.
     we add some rule, expectation modifier to our data and then we can run dbt test to check if our data meets those rules and expectations.

     singular tests: singular tests are custom tests that you can define yourself. 
                    they are specific to a particular model and are not reusable.
                    example: you can write a singular test to check if the total sales for a specific product is greater than 1000.

     generic tests: generic tests are predefined tests that come with dbt. 
                    they are reusable and can be applied to multiple models.
                    example: not_null, unique, accepted_values, relationships(referential integrity), etc.

dbt seeds:
     dbt seeds are a feature of dbt that allows you to load static data into your data warehouse. 
     they are typically used for reference data or lookup tables that do not change frequently.
     you can define seed files in your dbt project and then run dbt seed command to load the data into your data warehouse.

     it is used for developer perspective to load the static data like in mapping table, dimension table, etc. which are not changing frequently and we can use it in our models for transformation.

analyses folder:
     analyses folder is a special folder in dbt project where you can write any analysis queries that are not part of the regular transformation process.
     which query is not part of the developement or transformation process but you want to run it for some analysis or exploration of data, then you can write that query in the analyses folder.
     
jinja:
     jinja is a templating language that is used in dbt to write dynamic SQL queries.
     it allows you to use variables, loops, conditionals, and other programming constructs in your SQL code.
     with jinja, you can make your SQL code more flexible and reusable by using variables and logic to generate different SQL queries based on the context.
